Trump Hails Revised Nafta Deal, and Sets Up a Showdown With China

WASHINGTON — President Trump said Monday that the revised North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada would pour “cash and jobs” into the United States. But the deal’s importance may have less to do with the details than the signal it sends that Mr. Trump is methodically settling his multifront trade war to fight a single enemy: China.

A jubilant Mr. Trump celebrated the new Nafta agreement as the fulfillment of a bedrock campaign promise. He claimed it was a vindication of his aggressive use of tariffs and vowed to keep imposing them to extract deals from other trading partners, like the European Union and Japan.

But while Mr. Trump expressed confidence about eventually reaching deals with Europe and Japan, he was far more grudging about China, saying it was too soon to begin talking. Administration officials say privately that Mr. Trump is content to leave tariffs on $250 billion of Chinese goods in place for the foreseeable future to weaken its hand.

“China wants to talk very badly,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference in the White House Rose Garden. “I said frankly it’s too early to talk, because they’re not ready.” He added, “If politically, people force it too quickly, you’re not going to make the right deal.”

The updated Nafta, which will be called the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or U.S.M.C.A., represents Mr. Trump’s biggest trade achievement to date, and it comes after more than a year of intense negotiations that frequently fell into personal rancor between Mr. Trump and the leaders of Canada and Mexico.

After languishing for weeks, negotiations with Canada suddenly broke through Friday morning, according to a senior American official. The Trump administration, having received a detailed proposal from Canadian officials the day before, submitted a counteroffer, which the Canadians accepted in principle.

With a deal safely in hand, Mr. Trump lavished praise on Mexico’s outgoing president, Enrique Peña Nieto, with whom he had tangled repeatedly over the phone. He was less effusive about Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, but suggested their Cold War was over, too. It was not personal, Mr. Trump suggested about both men; it was just business.

“We had very strong tensions,” Mr. Trump said. “It was just an unfair deal, whether it was Mexico or Canada, and now it’s a fair deal for everybody. It’s a much different deal. It’s a brand-new deal. It’s not Nafta redone.”

Still, like some of Mr. Trump’s other accomplishments in business and government, the deal is partly a step forward and partly an exercise in rebranding.
EDITORS’ PICKS


In a Revived Durham, Black Residents Ask: Is There Still Room for Us?

What it Was Like to Be One of the First Female Fighter Pilots

How to Retire in Your 30s With $1 Million in the Bank
Canada will ease longstanding protections on its dairy market and provide access greater than what the United States would have gained through the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade treaty negotiated by President Barack Obama, from which Mr. Trump withdrew last year.

The United States relented on its demand to eliminate an independent tariff dispute settlement system that Canada had said was a red line. Preserving it was a major concession for the United States, which had eliminated the mechanism, known as Chapter 19, as part of its deal with Mexico.

The pact also makes a series of changes to areas like intellectual property and the digital economy, including protections for patents and domain names — all of which refresh Nafta, a 25-year-old pact that had become somewhat outmoded in the digital age.

But many of these innovations were drawn from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which included Canada and Mexico, and it prompted a senior Trump adviser to offer a rare endorsement of an Obama legacy achievement that Mr. Trump delighting in dismantling.

“We’re building on what was done in T.P.P.,” said Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative. “I’m in no way trying to knock the people that negotiated T.P.P.”

But he added, “Because we had the benefit of that, our agreement is substantially better than T.P.P.”

Mr. Lighthizer pointed to changes in regulations governing automobile manufacturing, which he said would bring more car production back to the United States. Under the agreement, a greater percentage of vehicles would have to be made in North America to qualify for Nafta’s zero tariffs.
A significant portion of the vehicles would also have to be assembled by workers earning at least $16 an hour — a wage floor intended to increase jobs in the United States and Canada, where wages are higher than in Mexico. While inflation will erode this wage protection over time, officials noted that the pact’s terms could be reviewed every six years.
Image

Analysts said the agreement might have an incremental impact on American automotive jobs, and might push car prices slightly higher. But Ford Motor Company said in a statement that it was “encouraged” by the accord, noting that a three-nation trade zone “will support an integrated, globally competitive automotive business in North America.”

The United Steelworkers union urged caution, lamenting that the Trump administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs had not been lifted as part of the deal. The commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, described those as “separate issues,” and Mexico and Canada say they expect those tariffs to be worked out on a separate track. Mr. Trump said the United States was talking with Mexico and Canada about potentially replacing them with quotas. Also unresolved is whether Canada and Mexico will continue retaliatory tariffs on American products like whiskey, orange juice and chocolate.

Mr. Trump must now submit the deal to Congress, where a potential change in control from Republicans to Democrats could throw its passage into doubt. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, made clear on Monday that Mr. Trump’s deal would not receive a rubber stamp.

But the top Senate Democrat, Chuck Schumer of New York, offered a rare endorsement of Mr. Trump’s approach.

“As someone who voted against Nafta and opposed it for many years, I knew it needed fixing. The president deserves praise for taking large steps to improve it,” Mr. Schumer said in a statement. He cautioned, though, that “any final agreement must be judged on how it benefits and protects middle-class families and the working people in our country.”
Experts on trade delivered a mixed verdict on the agreement. Parts of it, they said, were a much-needed update to Nafta. But other parts could restrict trade in a way that would ultimately hurt American consumers and increase uncertainty for American companies.

“He started this conflagration with Mexico and Canada, as he has with other trading partners,” said Daniel M. Price, a former trade adviser to President George W. Bush. “That he may put out the fires after they have destroyed significant acreage does not vindicate either the strategy or the result.”

The White House is moving on several fronts to settle the trade disputes Mr. Trump started. Last week, Mr. Trump signed a revised trade agreement with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea. He and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan agreed to begin talks on a deal, after months of resistance by Tokyo.

“They finally got their act together and decided they can’t win all these wars, so they’re settling many of them and focusing on China,” said Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a senior fellow and trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “They’re lining up the ducks for this gigantic battle with China.”

There are no plans for trade negotiations between China and the United States, although the president’s chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said Mr. Trump might meet President Xi Jinping of China at a summit meeting in Argentina in late November.

On Monday, Mr. Trump raised the prospect of even more tariffs against China and said his actions were taking a toll on the Chinese economy.

Although he voiced hopes about a deal with the European Union — and praised Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission president with whom he agreed to hold off on auto tariffs — White House officials said the negotiations with Europe would be arduous.

Jared Kushner, the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law, played a significant role in smoothing over the final sticking points between the United States and Canada, according to officials. He met informally with the Canadian foreign minister, Chrystia Freeland, during the transition, and kept in touch with her, even as Mr. Trump’s relationship with Mr. Trudeau became fraught.

“The relationship that we’ve been able to build with the countries established a lot of trust, both with the Canadians and Mexicans,” Mr. Kushner told reporters. “It was through that trust that we were able to talk about a lot of these issues.”

Mr. Trump and Mr. Trudeau spoke by telephone Monday morning, though Mr. Trudeau later dodged questions about whether the agreement would restore his relationship with the president.

“The relationship between the U.S. and Canadians is much deeper than just the relationship between two individuals who happen to be prime minister and president,” Mr. Trudeau said.

At the White House on Monday, Mr. Trump exulted in the abbreviation for the new agreement, U.S.M.C.A., which he predicted that “99 percent of the time we’ll be hearing.”

That rebranding, however, may prove to be one of Mr. Trump’s biggest challenges. Even in his briefing with reporters afterward, Mr. Lighthizer, a veteran trade lawyer, referred to the deal as Nafta.

Indonesia Tsunami Survivors Are Burying the Dead and Desperate for Aid

PALU, Indonesia — The bodies piled up in the police hospital had begun to bloat and decompose when Sarah Wati arrived on Monday with a bullet wound in her foot.

In the wake of a 7.5-magnitude earthquake and a 20-foot tsunami on Friday that killed at least 844 people, the eastern Indonesian city of Palu was still reeling. Hungry residents were begging for aid, armed men were foraging shuttered stores, crowds besieged the airport and mass jail breaks left prisoners roaming free.

Ms. Wati had been in a jostling crowd, watching as around 20 people attacked an A.T.M. with pickaxes, she said. Nearby, the police shot in the air and then sprayed bullets to clear the plunderers and onlookers. Ms. Wati, 20, jobless and the mother of one, was hit in the melee.

Even with medicine administered at the hospital, she was in tears from the pain and shock.

Three days after the twin natural disasters, Palu, a city of about 380,000 people, was consumed with the task of identifying the dead and ministering to the living, some still trapped under sheets of fallen buildings.
Frantic rescue efforts were hampered by limited heavy equipment, and police were busy dealing with looters. While President Joko Widodo said he welcomed international aid, none had yet reached the disaster zone. At the site of some collapsed buildings, workers were forced to work by hand, pulling away chunks of rubble.

National disaster response officials warned that scenes of devastation were being replayed all along the central coast of the island of Sulawesi, especially in remote regions. The death toll, magnified by the failure of a series of early warning systems, was likely to rise even higher.
Landslides and roads heaved upward by the earthquake blocked rescue workers from reaching entire villages. A team from the Indonesian Red Cross discovered the bodies of 36 people in Sigi, just south of Palu, on Monday. These fatalities do not appear to have been included in the government’s official count.

In Donggala, a fishing region near Palu, hundreds of residents huddled in makeshift camps by the roadside, either because their homes were damaged or for fear of aftershocks.
“The situation in the affected areas is nightmarish,” said Jan Gelfand, head of the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, citing the dire lack of food, water and shelter for survivors.

At least 2,500 homes in the region were destroyed, with some buried in mud, when the earthquake caused the ground to flow like a liquid, a process called liquefaction, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, the spokesman of the disaster response agency, said.

Concern about aftershocks were revived on Tuesday morning, when a 6.0 quake rocked Sumba island roughly 1,000 miles south of Palu.

The quake, located at a depth of about 6 miles southwest of Sumba, prompted residents of the remote island to run in panic from their homes. No casualties were immediately reported.

Shortly before the Sumba quake, Donggala was hit by an aftershock measuring 5.3.

The quakes are part of a recent increase in seismic and volcanic activity in the region, including a magnitude 6.9 earthquake that hit Lombok and the Gili islands southwest of Sulawesi on August 5, killing more than 460 people.

On Monday morning, thousands of desperate people stormed the Palu airport, many apparently trying to flee the stricken city. The rush on the runway was so frenzied that an Indonesian Air Force plane filled with relief supplies was unable to land. The airport, hampered by a damaged control tower and cracked runway, was briefly closed.
More than 1,000 convicts escaped from three local jails, the Indonesian authorities said on Monday. One jail was set on fire. But capturing the inmates was not a top priority for the overstretched police, Ministry of Justice officials said.

Residents walked dazed through town, clambering over fractured roads to search for missing family members. Others steeled themselves for a trip to the police hospital, part of which has been turned into a makeshift morgue.

On the road into Palu, supplicants stopped cars, pleading for anything: fuel, food, water. At least two aid vehicles were besieged by mobs.

Rescue efforts in Palu continued to focus on a crumpled hotel and a shopping mall, buildings where the hope was greatest of still finding survivors. At the ruins of the Roa Roa, once a cheery eight-story business hotel, a digger shifted large slabs of concrete to try to reach people trapped underneath. On Sunday, a woman was pulled alive from the wreckage.

In this stiflingly hot city just south of the Equator, the authorities tried to dispose of bodies quickly, burying them in a mass grave after first taking DNA samples so that identities can be confirmed later.

“The smell of death is strong in the air,” said Radika Pinto, the area manager for World Vision, an international Christian aid organization. “I’m afraid the death toll is going to continue to rise dramatically.”

President Joko, who visited the area on Sunday, declared a national disaster, paving the way for the country to begin accepting foreign aid. In previous instances, local authorities had said they could handle the relief efforts themselves and turned away offers of overseas assistance, prompting much criticism.
Questions remained about whether the country’s notoriously inefficient bureaucracy could have done more to reduce the loss of life.

Indonesia’s thousands of islands are dispersed across one of the most seismically dynamic expanses on earth. Central Sulawesi Province, where the earthquake struck on Friday, is regularly deluged by tsunamis.

Yet Indonesia’s tsunami early-warning system is a mess. A network of 22 buoys that is supposed to monitor for movement on Indonesian open water has not been operational since 2012.

Nadrah, who like many Indonesians uses one name, said residents of Donggala received no warning of the tsunami. No sirens sounded. No text messages pinged.

But Ms. Nadrah, 54, has known from her childhood what can follow when the earth quakes. “Our parents taught us that if the shaking is scary and lasts a long time, a tsunami will come,” she said. So she ran to higher ground once the tremors subsided.

One of the worst tsunamis in recorded history struck the northern tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra in 2004, killing more than 130,000 people there. People died in 13 other countries in that tsunami.

Some of the defunct warning buoys have become moors for fishing boats, destroying the sensitive equipment within, officials from the national meteorology, climatology and geophysics agency said.

“We have no manpower to monitor these buoys, and it’s so expensive,” said Rahmat Triyono, the earthquake and tsunami chief at the meteorology agency. “We are doing our best with our limited resources.”

Mr. Rahmat said the buoys were not crucial to Indonesia’s disaster preparedness.

“It’s not like without the buoys, the early warning system will collapse,” he said. “We will still survive because we have all this modeling, all these programs, that we have been working on.”

The magnitude of Friday’s earthquake was strong enough that it set off an automatic tsunami warning for the Palu area, based on seismographic modeling. But even though an alert was raised, residents of Palu and Donggala said they had been given no sign, such as a siren, about it.

Another system that could help with early tsunami warnings, tide gauges located closer to shore, proved useless because they had been set to provide data every 15 minutes, rather than at more frequent intervals.

In the case of Friday’s tsunami, three successive waves inundated the coast within 11 minutes of the earthquake hitting, meteorological officials said.
The gauge nearest to the site of Friday’s tsunami recorded only a 2.3-inch rise in water levels when the reality was as high as 20 feet. Mr. Sutopo, the disaster agency spokesman, said on Monday that the biggest wave crested over electricity poles in Donggala.

“You can say that Indonesia is not set up for tsunami warnings,” said Eko Yulianto, a tsunami expert at the Indonesian Institute of Sciences. “But we are a country with a lot of tsunamis. The golden time is very short, and if people are not alerted, then they are really at risk.”

Yet even if residents of Central Sulawesi know to scramble to higher ground — either from muscle memory from previous tsunamis or from government alerts — there is no network of tsunami shelters built on its vulnerable coasts.

Detailed New National Maps Show How Neighborhoods Shape Children for Life

SEATTLE — The part of this city east of Northgate Mall looks like many of the neighborhoods that surround it, with its modest midcentury homes beneath dogwood and Douglas fir trees.

Whatever distinguishes this place is invisible from the street. But it appears that poor children who grow up here — to a greater degree than children living even a mile away — have good odds of escaping poverty over the course of their lives.

Believing this, officials in the Seattle Housing Authority are offering some families with housing vouchers extra rent money and help to find a home here: between 100th and 115th Streets, east of Meridian, west of 35th Avenue. Officials drew these lines, and boundaries around several other Seattle neighborhoods, using highly detailed research on the economic fortunes of children in nearly every neighborhood in America.

The research has shown that where children live matters deeply in whether they prosper as adults. On Monday the Census Bureau, in collaboration with researchers at Harvard and Brown, published nationwide data that will make it possible to pinpoint — down to the census tract, a level relevant to individual families — where children of all backgrounds have the best shot at getting ahead.
This work, years in the making, seeks to bring the abstract promise of big data to the real lives of children. Across the country, city officials and philanthropists who have dreamed of such a map are planning how to use it. They’re hoping it can help crack open a problem, the persistence of neighborhood disadvantage, that has been resistant to government interventions and good intentions for years.

Nationwide, the variation is striking. Children raised in poor families in some neighborhoods of Memphis went on to make just $16,000 a year in their adult households; children from families of similar means living in parts of the Minneapolis suburbs ended up making four times as much.

The local disparities, however, are the most curious, and the most compelling to policymakers. In one of the tracts just north of Seattle’s 115th Street — a place that looks similarly leafy, with access to the same middle school — poor children went on to households earning about $5,000 less per year than children raised in Northgate. They were more likely to be incarcerated and less likely to be employed.

The researchers believe much of this variation is driven by the neighborhoods themselves, not by differences in what brings people to live in them. The more years children spend in a good neighborhood, the greater the benefits they receive. And what matters, the researchers find, is a hyper-local setting: the environment within about half a mile of a child’s home.
At that scale, these patterns — a refinement of previous research at the county level — have become much less theoretical, and easier to act on.

“That’s exciting and inspiring and daunting in some ways that we’re actually talking about real families, about kids growing up in different neighborhoods based on this data,” said the Harvard economist Raj Chetty, one of the project’s researchers, along with Nathaniel Hendren at Harvard, John N. Friedman at Brown, and Maggie R. Jones and Sonya R. Porter at the Census Bureau.

The Seattle and King County housing authorities are testing whether they can leverage their voucher programs to move families to where opportunity already exists. In Charlotte, where poverty is deeper and more widespread, community leaders are hoping to nurse opportunity where it’s missing.

In other communities, the researchers envision that this mapping could help identify sites for new Head Start centers, or neighborhoods for “Opportunity Zones” created by the 2017 tax law. Children from low-opportunity neighborhoods, they suggest, could merit priority for selective high schools.

For any government program or community grant that targets a specific place, this data proposes a better way to pick those places — one based not on neighborhood poverty levels, but on whether we expect children will escape poverty as adults.

That metric is both more specific and more mysterious. Researchers still don’t understand exactly what leads some neighborhoods to nurture children, although they point to characteristics like more employed adults and two-parent families that are common among such places. Other features like school boundary lines and poverty levels often cited as indicators of good neighborhoods explain only half of the variation here.

“These things are now possible to think about in a different way than you thought about them before,” said Greg Russ, the head of the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority, which is also planning to use the data. “Is opportunity a block away? These are the kind of questions we can ask.”

The answers shown here are based on the adult earnings of 20.5 million children, captured in anonymous, individual-level census and tax data that links each child with his or her parents. That data covers nearly all children in America born between 1978 and 1983, although the map here illustrates the subset of those children raised in poorer families. The research offers a time-lapse view of what happened to them: who became a teenage mother, who went to prison, who wound up in the middle class, and who remained trapped in poverty for another generation.

Few of the children from Northgate still live in the neighborhood, but the data traces their outcomes as adults today back to the place that helped shape them.

The patterns broadly hold true for children growing up today, the researchers believe, even though the data reflects the experience of people now in their 30s. In rapidly changing cities like Seattle, some neighborhoods will look quite different now. So in drawing their opportunity maps, the housing authorities here, working with Mr. Chetty’s team, also considered indicators like poverty rates and test scores for poor students today.

The researchers argue, however, that this data that looks back over the last 30 years can reveal something about a place that’s not captured in snapshots of its conditions today.

In Seattle, that picture confirmed what housing officials feared — that their voucher holders had long been clustered in neighborhoods offering the least upward mobility.
“It really struck us as, well, we are contributing to this problem, not solving the problem,” said Andrew Lofton, the executive director of the Seattle Housing Authority.

Here the response means offering some of those families more choices in where to live. But that solution won’t help every child, or even many of them. The larger question is how to convert struggling neighborhoods into places where poor children are likely to thrive.

In other regions, the differences between such places are more visible than in Seattle.

In the Charlotte area, Ophelia Garmon-Brown, a longtime family physician, sees in these maps clear traces of where the fewest jobs are, where the high-poverty schools are, where African-American families live.

“You could drive from your home in south Charlotte to your banking job downtown and never see poverty, because we’re so segregated,” said Dr. Garmon-Brown, who grew up poor herself, in Detroit. “In some of this, we have to admit that was intentional.”

The earlier research showed Charlotte as among the worst large metropolitan areas in the country in creating opportunity for poor children, a realization that prompted the community to create a task force co-chaired by Dr. Garmon-Brown. At this finer scale, parsing outcomes by race and neighborhood, poor white children in Charlotte have had more opportunity than poor black children, even when they’ve grown up in the same neighborhoods. In many parts of the region, however, their worlds simply don’t overlap.

In other communities, what separates neighborhoods is probably tied to incarceration. Included in the new census data are neighborhood-level rates of children who were later counted in the census in prisons or jails on April 1, 2010.

About 1.5 percent of the entire cohort, adults then in their late 20s to early 30s, were incarcerated on that single day. For some neighborhoods in Milwaukee or New Haven, that number was far higher: As many as one in four poor black boys growing up in those places were incarcerated. Their neighborhoods — or something about how those neighborhoods were policed — sent more poor children into prison than out of poverty.

Underscoring how difficult it will be to transform these places, the federal government has spent billions in struggling neighborhoods over the years, funneling as much as $500 million into some individual census tracts since 1990, according to a tally by researchers of major placed-based initiatives like block grants and housing redevelopment programs.

“And yet we’ve never been able as a country to fully know whether and to what degree those investments were efficacious,” said Kathryn Edin, a Princeton sociologist.

Ms. Edin and other researchers working with Mr. Chetty plan to re-examine those past government programs with the new data, which makes it possible to identify where children lived when they were exposed to those investments, and what happened to them afterward.

If the answers are not clear yet, there is a hint of answers coming, now that we have fine-grained data on millions of children, now that cities alarmed by the results are taking notice, now that philanthropists are lining up to help.

In Seattle, where all these pieces have converged, housing officials were recently driving past neighborhoods their map doesn’t identify, into “opportunity areas” where families have begun to move.

“I believe the results of the data, but we all wish we knew what the distinguishing attributes are, so that we could build them in other neighborhoods,” said Andria Lazaga, the director of policy and strategic initiatives with the Seattle Housing Authority. “That’s the dream — to figure that out.”

Facebook Security Breach Exposes Accounts of 50 Million Users

SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook, already facing scrutiny over how it handles the private information of its users, said on Friday that an attack on its computer network had exposed the personal information of nearly 50 million users.

The breach, which was discovered this week, was the largest in the company’s 14-year history. The attackers exploited a feature in Facebook’s code to gain access to user accounts and potentially take control of them.

The news could not have come at a worse time for Facebook. It has been buffeted over the last year by scandal, from revelations that a British analytics firm got access to the private information of up to 87 million users to worries that disinformation on Facebook has affected elections and even led to deaths in several countries.

Senior executives have testified several times this year in congressional hearings where some lawmakers suggested that the government will need to step in if the social network is unable to get tighter control of its service. On Friday, regulators and lawmakers quickly seized on the breach to renew calls for more oversight.
“This is another sobering indicator that Congress needs to step up and take action to protect the privacy and security of social media users,” Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia and one of Facebook’s most vocal critics in Congress, said in a statement. “A full investigation should be swiftly conducted and made public so that we can understand more about what happened.”

In the conference call on Friday, Guy Rosen, a vice president of product management at Facebook, declined to say whether the attack could have been coordinated by hackers supported by a nation-state.

Three software flaws in Facebook’s systems allowed hackers to break into user accounts, including those of the top executives Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, according to two people familiar with the investigation but not allowed to discuss it publicly. Once in, the attackers could have gained access to apps like Spotify, Instagram and hundreds of others that give users a way to log into their systems through Facebook.

[Read more about what you can do to secure your Facebook account.]

The software bugs were particularly awkward for a company that takes pride in its engineering: The first two were introduced by an online tool meant to improve the privacy of users. The third was introduced in July 2017 by a tool meant to easily upload birthday videos.

Facebook said it had fixed the vulnerabilities and notified law enforcement officials. Company officials do not know the identity or the origin of the attackers, nor have they fully assessed the scope of the attack or if particular users were targeted. The investigation is still in its beginning stages.

“We’re taking it really seriously,” Mr. Zuckerberg, the chief executive, said in a conference call with reporters. “I’m glad we found this, but it definitely is an issue that this happened in the first place.”

Critics say the attack is the latest sign that Facebook has yet to come to terms with its problems.

“Breaches don’t just violate our privacy. They create enormous risks for our economy and national security,” Rohit Chopra, a commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, said in a statement. “The cost of inaction is growing, and we need answers.”

Facebook has been roundly criticized for being slow to acknowledge a vast disinformation campaign run by Russian operatives on its platform and other social media outlets before the 2016 presidential election.

Ms. Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, testified in a Senate hearing that month about what the company was trying to do to prevent the same thing from happening in midterm elections in November.

In April, Mr. Zuckerberg testified about revelations that Cambridge Analytica, the British analytics firm that worked with the Trump presidential campaign, siphoned personal information of millions of Facebook users.

Outside the United States, the impact of disinformation appearing on Facebook and the popular messaging service it owns, WhatsApp, has been severe. In countries such as Myanmar and India, false rumors spread on social media are believed to have led to widespread killing.

Facebook said the attackers had exploited two bugs in the site’s “View As” feature, which allows users to check on what information other people can see about them. The feature was built to give users move control over their privacy.
The company said those flaws were compounded by a bug in Facebook’s video-uploading program for birthday celebrations, a software feature that was introduced in July 2017. The flaw allowed the attackers to steal so-called access tokens — digital keys that allow access to an account.

It is not clear when the attack happened, but it appears to have occurred after the video-uploading program was introduced, Facebook said. The company forced more than 90 million users to log out early Friday, a common safety measure taken when accounts have been compromised.

The hackers also tried to harvest people’s private information, including name, sex and hometown, from Facebook’s systems, Mr. Rosen said. The company could not determine the extent of the attackers’ access to third-party accounts, he said.

Facebook has been reshuffling its security teams since Alex Stamos, its chief security officer, left in August for a teaching position at Stanford University. Instead of acting as a stand-alone group, security team members now work more closely with product teams across the company. The move, the company said, is an effort to embed security across every step of Facebook product development.

Part of that effort has been to gird Facebook against attacks on its network in preparation for the midterm elections. Facebook has spent months setting up new systems to pre-empt such attacks, and has already dealt with a number of incidents believed to be connected to elections in Mexico, Brazil and other countries.

Still, the recently discovered breach was a reminder that it is exceptionally difficult to entirely secure a system that has more than 2.2 billion users all over the world and that connects with thousands of third-party services.

“This has really shown us that because today’s digital environment is so complex, a compromise on a single platform — especially one as popular and widely reaching as Facebook — can have consequences that are much more far-reaching than what we can tell in early days of the investigation,” said April Doss, chairwoman of cybersecurity at the law firm Saul Ewing.
As the news of Facebook’s data breach spread quickly across Twitter, Google searches and other online sites, there was one place where it remained difficult to find some detailed reports: Facebook.

Users who posted breaking stories about the breach from The Guardian, The Associated Press and other outlets were prompted with a notice that their posts had been taken down. So many people were posting the stories, they looked like suspicious activity to the systems that Facebook uses to block abuse of its network.

“We removed this post because it looked like spam to us,” the notice said.

Google Chief Agrees to Testify to Congress

WASHINGTON — Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, toured the nation’s capital this week trying to assuage concerns from both parties about the company’s size and influence, and whether its search results have political bias.

Mr. Pichai, who had largely avoided meeting with lawmakers, will be coming back.

Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, who organized a meeting with Mr. Pichai on Friday, said he expected him to attend a congressional hearing later this year. The hearing will address questions of political bias, as well as Google’s potential plans to re-enter the Chinese market, said Mr. McCarthy, the House majority leader.

Mr. Pichai confirmed in a statement that he would testify in “due course.”

In addition, he has agreed to participate in a discussion with other tech industry leaders and President Trump, said Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council.

Google had declined to send Mr. Pichai to testify this month at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing about foreign manipulation of social media. The absence upset many lawmakers, leading to his visit this week.
Mr. McCarthy has been one of the most vocal critics of Google, raising accusations that the search engine purposely suppresses conservative views in its results. He has accused Twitter and Facebook of similar bias, joined by other Republican lawmakers who point to the liberal leanings of Silicon Valley as motivation to skew the discovery of information.

The meeting on Friday with Mr. Pichai, which Mr. McCarthy and eight other Republican lawmakers attended, seemed to smooth over relations. But suspicions of political bias remained.

“I see a hearing right now looking at bias, looking at all the issues we talked about, from privacy to China,” Mr. McCarthy said after the meeting. He does not expect the hearing to focus on antitrust concerns and whether Google should be broken up, he added.

After avoiding much of the scrutiny heaped upon its internet rivals over the last year, Google has been thrust into the harsh spotlight in recent weeks. Conservatives have accused the company of using its dominance of online search to provide results slanted against Republicans — a charge the company denies.

Mr. Pichai’s no-show at the hearing this month — captured by images of an empty seat alongside executives from Facebook and Twitter — added to the rancor. Leaks of employee emails discussing ways to counter President Trump’s immigration policy, and video of a companywide meeting that showed executives lamenting his election victory, have also fueled the allegations of bias.

Mr. McCarthy said Mr. Pichai had explained how search worked and how Google’s algorithm, which the company keeps secret, changes over time. In the past, Google has said political ideology is not a factor in any aspect of its search results. It does not, according to the company, collect information about whether a user is conservative or liberal, or categorize web pages by political leanings.

On Thursday and Friday, Mr. Pichai also had meetings with Democratic lawmakers, including one with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader.

Mr. Pichai, in the statement, said the discussions over the two days “with a wide range of congressional leaders were constructive and informative.”

Melania Trump Visiting Africa, a Continent Freighted With History for Her Husband

WASHINGTON — Melania Trump ended up picking a lively week to get out of town.

On Monday, the mysterious, glamorous, disappearance-prone first lady was leaving behind a roiling capital where her husband faces several raw battles, including one over his Supreme Court nominee, to embark on a trip to Africa. In her first big solo trip abroad, Mrs. Trump is scheduled to visit four African countries in the span of a week: Ghana, Kenya, Malawi and Egypt.

She is expected to see the sights. (This first lady on safari? It’s a possibility.) She is expected to greet schoolchildren and dole out baby blankets at hospitals. She is expected to wear flats.

And through it all, Mrs. Trump will try her hand at putting a softer lens on her husband’s administration abroad, just a week after he appeared before the United Nations and rejected globalism.

Her husband’s charged language about the continent may not make that any easier. The president was widely reported as having maligned African countries and Haiti as “shitholes,” and he spoke of Nigerian immigrants as having lived in huts back home. Then there was the lengthy crusade Mr. Trump led claiming that Barack Obama was a Kenyan citizen, and not eligible for the presidency.

The first lady has some lingering diplomatic baggage of her own. In 2011, the Slovenian-born Mrs. Trump also suggested that Mr. Obama had not been born in America. And this year, she made a thousand headlines by wearing a jacket emblazoned with the phrase “I REALLY DON’T CARE, DO U?” on the way to visit a Texas shelter for detained migrant children. On another trip to Texas, her choice of footwear — stiletto heels — as she headed off to meet with hurricane victims also seemed insensitive, or at least tone deaf.

The East Wing has played down the idea that the trip is meant to smooth over any of the president’s diplomatic mishaps, clear the way for a presidential visit or undo any missteps Mrs. Trump has made.

So why Africa?

“She had always envisioned that Africa would be her first solo international trip,” Stephanie Grisham, her communications director, said. “She is interested in Africa because she has never been before and knows that each country will have its own unique history and culture.”

The White House has not yet publicly detailed Mrs. Trump’s itinerary, citing security reasons. But Mrs. Trump is scheduled to visit schools, hospitals and tourist sites over the course of six days. She is expected to weave in elements of her child-focused platform, “Be Best,” as she visits with children.

“She had a vision in mind of what she wanted to see and wants to hit the ground running,” Ms. Grisham said.

Mrs. Trump will work with the United State Agency for International Development during her stops throughout Africa. Her husband offered his view of foreign aid at the United Nations last week, suggesting that the United States would give aid only to “our friends.”

Even without the diplomatic baggage of Trump administration, trips abroad can be fraught for first ladies. They are expected to be perfect in protocol and project a steadying presence, even against politically tumultuous backdrops.

But among her predecessors, Africa is well-trodden territory. Hillary Clinton traveled there alone. When George W. Bush was president, Laura Bush went to Africa several times as part of the administration’s work fighting AIDS. And, like Mrs. Trump, who first traveled alone to Toronto last year, Michelle Obama chose Africa as the location for her second solo trip out of the country.

Aside from the unsparing scrutiny they draw as they travel, modern first ladies have also faced questions over the cost of their trips to taxpayers.

Mrs. Obama drew criticism for the price tag of her solo trips, including the $424,000 that, according to one analysis, it cost taxpayers for her and her entourage to travel to Africa in 2011. Like Mrs. Obama, Mrs. Trump has traveled in a C-32A, a smaller version of the plane Mr. Trump uses under the call sign Air Force One, for her previous international travel. Those cost around $15,846 an hour to operate. Mrs. Trump is planning to go to Africa with a small number of aides; the couple’s 12-year-old son, Barron, will stay behind in Washington.

In addition to diverting attention away from tumult at home, “it’s therapeutic for first ladies to leave Washington as often as they can,” said Kate Andersen Brower, who wrote a book about first ladies.

“The harder things get for their husbands, the more they want to leave,” she said.

Katherine Jellison, a professor at Ohio University who studies first ladies, said Mrs. Trump was unlikely to make any sort of foreign policy moves on behalf of the Trump administration. And she will most likely be one well shielded from any demonstrators or people who are unhappy with Mr. Trump.

"I think they will work very hard to make sure that she is encountering people who are sympathetic and will give her a sympathetic meeting or greeting,” Ms. Jellison said. “This is just kind of standard operating procedure when first ladies make these kind of solo trips.”

Planning for the trip began in earnest last year. The Secret Service whittled down the list of available options for security reasons, and then Mrs. Trump picked countries where she could mix work with a small amount of tourism. Morocco was considered, but abandoned in the end because Mrs. Trump was wary that the entrance for her that was being talked about might strike some as too grand and ceremonious.

Mrs. Trump is likely to focus on spending time with her counterparts as she goes from country to country. She recently hosted Margaret Kenyatta, the Kenyan first lady, at the White House, and said in a speech last week at the United Nations that she was planning to learn more about the work done by Agency for International Development in Kenya on early childhood education.

“Whether it is education, drug addiction, hunger, online safety or bullying, poverty or disease,” Mrs. Trump said in that speech, “it is too often children who are hit first, and hardest, across the globe.”

If Mr. Trump can keep from generating too many of his own headlines this week, Mrs. Trump may be able to step in and help an increasingly isolated America show an inclusive face to the world, Ms. Andersen Brower, the author, said.

“I am very curious to see if Melania’s trip will be effective,” she said. “This White House is in desperate need of another story line.”

Biden Is Preparing for 2020. Can He Overcome the Hill-Thomas Hearings?

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — At a Democratic rally in a downtown ballroom Sunday evening, Gov. Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island spoke vividly about the Senate hearings on the sexual assault allegations against Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh, saying her “stomach turned” as she watched. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse was indignant, vowing “no more Kavanaughs” if the Democrats win control of the Senate in November.

When it was Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s turn to speak, he was stern but circumspect — even philosophical. Republicans, he said, had displayed “blind rage and brute partisanship,” imperiling the Supreme Court’s moral authority. He accused them of flouting norms he enforced as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee in the 1990s.

“Dr. Blasey Ford gave courageous, credible testimony,” Mr. Biden said, referring to Christine Blasey Ford, who says Judge Kavanaugh attacked her when they were teenagers. “She was denied an F.B.I. investigation, which was automatic when I was chairman.”

It was a pointed but careful condemnation from Mr. Biden, and a sign of how his former role on the Judiciary Committee is complicating his present-day status as a leader in the Democratic Party.

As he actively explores a 2020 presidential run, the 75-year-old former vice president is coming under increased scrutiny from his fellow Democrats because of his role in the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings in 1991, as explosive debates over gender, sex and the Supreme Court overshadow the themes of economic fairness that Mr. Biden trumpeted across the Northeast in recent days.

His name has been invoked frequently in recent days, mainly by Republicans, for leading the 1991 hearings when an all-male, all-white Judiciary Committee aggressively questioned Anita Hill about claims that Judge Thomas had sexually harassed her. The hearings have long been a source of discomfort with Mr. Biden among Democrats who remember the process.

Mr. Biden and his aides have issued multiple statements accusing Republicans of taking his past remarks and actions out of context to bolster their defense of Judge Kavanaugh. But he has largely stayed on the margins of the current Supreme Court fight, and last week scrapped a trip to South Carolina and Georgia that would have overlapped with Dr. Blasey and Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony, though aides said that was not the reason for the cancellation.

The revival of interest in the Hill-Thomas hearings — and the mood of alarm among Democrats about the integrity of the Supreme Court — has clouded Mr. Biden’s 2020 deliberations as they approach a critical phase. He has already been weighing his ambition to lead the country and his determination to help oust President Trump against concern that a campaign would strain his family — and a sense that many Democrats are yearning for a leader from a younger, more diverse and pugilistic generation.

Even some of Mr. Biden’s friends say he will have to show remorse for the Hill-Thomas hearings if he wants Democrats to accept him as a leader for the future in a party sharply defined by the concerns of liberal women.

Former Senator Barbara Boxer of California — who won her seat in the so-called “Year of the Woman” election in 1992, spurred in part by outrage over the Hill-Thomas hearings — said Mr. Biden had to address his past head-on.

“If he handles it right, it could be a plus; if he handles it wrong, it’ll be a minus,” Ms. Boxer said. “And handling it right means stepping up to the plate.”

[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping the 2018 elections with our new politics newsletter.]

Mr. Biden’s low profile in the Kavanaugh fight has contrasted sharply with the prominence of other potential 2020 candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey, who questioned the judge and Dr. Blasey in the Judiciary Committee, and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. Ms. Warren said Saturday that the Republicans’ treatment of Dr. Blasey had pushed her closer to running for president.

Mr. Biden has privately expressed frustration about the ire directed at him for his Judiciary Committee tenure, according to multiple people who have spoken with him directly but requested anonymity to discuss private conversations. He has been incensed about Republicans’ taking some of his past remarks out of context: They brandished one video clip from 1991 to suggest Mr. Biden had dismissed the value of having the F.B.I. investigate Ms. Hill’s allegations. Mr. Biden’s spokesman said he had been rejecting an argument from a Republican, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, who said the F.B.I. had effectively exonerated Mr. Thomas.

But Mr. Biden has also complained to allies that fellow Democrats are now judging his role in the Hill hearings without, he believes, appropriately recognizing the limits of his power as a committee chairman, and the political reality of that moment.

Publicly, Mr. Biden has expressed regret about the way the Hill hearings unfolded; privately, he has also described it as unfair that Ms. Hill continues to hold him responsible for her rough treatment in the Senate.

Advisers to Mr. Biden said there was no current plan for confronting his handling of the Thomas nomination more exhaustively, and Mr. Biden has not reached out to Ms. Hill during the Kavanaugh hearings.

Yet Mr. Biden’s associates say he would not be deterred from seeking the White House by the thought of having his record picked over. Were he to forgo a run, Mr. Biden’s allies say, it would be mainly out of concern for his family, which has endured tragedy and turbulence over the last several years: One of Mr. Biden’s sons, Beau, died of cancer in 2015 — contributing to his decision not to run in 2016 — and another son, Hunter, finalized a lurid divorce last year.

Mr. Biden’s former chief of staff, Steve Ricchetti, has been contacting Democratic donors to gauge their interest. Several potential supporters have suggested that Mr. Biden pledge to serve one term as president, to cast his candidacy as an act of sacrifice and mute concerns about his age. Another possibility would be to announce a younger running mate early in a campaign. It is unclear how seriously Mr. Biden is entertaining either idea.

Mr. Biden may also signal with his midterm travel whether he is up for the rigors of a national campaign. Aides said early in the summer that he would campaign up to four days a week this fall, but some concede privately that he has kept a lighter schedule.

During a fund-raising visit to New York City in September, Mr. Biden spoke bluntly at multiple private events about his thinking about 2020, exposing his indecision about the race, according to people who attended the gatherings.

At a Manhattan fund-raiser for Richard Cordray, the Democratic nominee for governor of Ohio, Mr. Biden sounded a determined note, saying he could take back once-Democratic regions, like the Midwest, that had drifted away from the party. At another fund-raiser, Mr. Biden sounded more cautious, saying he could campaign for Democrats anywhere in the country this fall — except for Iowa and New Hampshire, because it would send the wrong message.

Vikas Desai, a venture-capital investor who attended the Cordray fund-raiser, said Mr. Biden had sounded “very passionate” about 2020.

“I got the impression that he believes he can connect with the voter base of the U.S., now more than ever,” Mr. Desai said.

The midterms, Mr. Biden’s allies say, could offer sharp clarity about the appetite within the party for his brand of politics.

Should younger, unabashedly progressive Democrats, such as Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida, win swing-state gubernatorial races, or should Beto O’Rourke prevail in his Senate bid in Texas, it could create a mood of electric generational change that might be inhospitable to Mr. Biden.

For now, however, Mr. Biden is unmatched among national Democrats in his ability to traverse the electoral map, ranging from the sparse expanse of North Dakota to the dense suburbs of Orange County, Calif. He is expected to appear soon with both Ms. Abrams and Mr. Gillum and is likely to visit Nevada, an early-voting caucus state, as well.

A recent private poll in Iowa, the leadoff state in presidential races, found Mr. Biden with a 94 percent approval rating among Democratic caucusgoers and a clear lead in a 2020 contest over the next-strongest Democrat, Ms. Warren. But in a warning sign, the poll also found most Democrats preferred a younger candidate with new ideas over an older candidate with deep experience in Washington.

Former Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, the last Democrat to lead that state, said Mr. Biden had a unique ability to assemble a winning coalition there, with an appeal anchored in his modest roots.

“He talks about things that are important to a lot of working-class Ohioans — health care and economic justice,” Mr. Strickland said, predicting Mr. Biden would start out as the Democratic front-runner if he runs.

But Mr. Strickland, who was a close ally of the Obama administration, said he was unsure how Mr. Biden would fare in a rowdy Democratic field. The former governor said Mr. Biden would have to address “the Anita Hill period of his political life.” Mr. Strickland added that he was personally urging another possible contender, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington State, to enter the race.

In the broad orbit of former Obama administration officials, affection for Mr. Biden runs deep, but so do reservations about his potential candidacy. Some worry that the idea of a Biden candidacy sounds better than it would turn out to be, and express a sense of protectiveness toward a former vice president who could see himself branded as something other than the Democrats’ beloved “Uncle Joe” in a rough-and-tumble primary.

Others are actively recruiting another Obama ally for the race: former Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts. In separate conversations earlier this year, Valerie Jarrett, Mr. Obama’s former senior adviser, and Michelle Obama walked Mr. Patrick’s wife, Diane, through the demands and expectations of a national campaign, Democrats briefed on the discussions said.

Mr. Biden has told several Democrats, including some who are contemplating the 2020 race themselves, that if he sees a strong party leader emerge whom he could comfortably support, he might back that person rather than run himself. The absence of such a figure, so far, has intensified his deliberations.

“He’s said for two years if somebody is really moving he’d step aside,’’ said Steve Schale, a Florida-based Democratic strategist who sought to draft Mr. Biden for the 2016 race. “And I’d argue that nobody has stepped up yet.”

Unraveling a Tesla Mystery: Lots (and Lots) of Parked Cars

Elon Musk’s settlement of a securities-fraud case has removed a cloud over the company and its leader. But another remains: how its electric-car production is measuring up against Mr. Musk's ambitious forecasts, a matter that a federal regulator is still investigating.

One group of internet sleuths thinks it has found clues in plain sight, pointing to lots and garages in California, New Jersey, Arizona and other states where Tesla cars have been found parked in large numbers.

The group’s efforts to document those sites could shed light on the delivery troubles that the Tesla chief has acknowledged, and reveal whether demand for the company’s cars is as high as he has suggested.

Since July, Tesla has been parking anywhere from a couple of dozen to a few hundred cars at a lot in Burbank, Calif. In Lathrop, 70 miles east of San Francisco, Tesla has as many as 400 cars at an industrial site. A similar number turned up outside an industrial building nearby. At times cars have been seen entering and leaving the building, suggesting it may be a collection point or repair center.

Hundreds more have been found in Antioch, northeast of San Francisco. On Thursday, a batch of about 100 Model 3s turned up in Bellevue, Wash. Smaller collections have surfaced in Chicago, Dallas, Las Vegas and Salt Lake City.

How have the clues been collected?
The parked vehicles were discovered over the last two months by the amateur detectives, who in at least some cases are also investors betting that Tesla’s share price will fall. Some have flown drones over the parking lots to take pictures of the cars. At least one has access to a plane and shoots high-resolution photographs from the air. They post the photos on Twitter and have taken to calling themselves the Shorty Air Force.

The sleuths — including three interviewed for this article, who asked not to be identified — say they feel Mr. Musk has not been candid about the company’s situation, particularly its sales.

A Tesla spokesman, Dave Arnold, said by email that the large lots of vehicles were “logistics transit hubs” and added, “Anyone observing those lots will see a change from one day to the next.” (He said Monday that the cars in Bellevue were awaiting delivery. Photos posted online on Sunday show hoods open, possibly indicating maintenance work.)

As the sightings continue, here are some of the things worth watching.

Do the cars simply reflect a delivery problem?
Mr. Musk recently acknowledged that the company was having difficulty shipping cars to customers, saying Tesla was in “delivery logistics hell.”

He attributed the problem to a shortage of trucks to haul cars around the country.

“That’s total nonsense,” said Mark B. Spiegel, a managing partner at Stanphyl Capital, which has a large position shorting Tesla. He is a vocal critic of the company and Mr. Musk on Twitter. “A quick search would reveal plenty of car hauler capacity. Perhaps Tesla doesn’t have the cash to pay for them.”

The Auto Haulers Association of America is not aware of any shortage of car haulers, nor of any other automakers that are having trouble shipping new vehicles. “There’s quite a few carrier companies in California,” said Guy Young, the association’s general manager.

Mr. Musk also said last week that Tesla had started producing its own trailers to transport cars to customers. Tesla has declined to say where the trailers are being made and whether the design has been approved by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, which regulates buses and transport vehicles.

Mike Ramsey, an auto analyst at Gartner, said he surmised that Tesla, in some cases, was simply gathering cars together before shipping them to customers, or bringing cars with defects together to repair them before delivery.

If so, that suggests Tesla failed in a critical task: It didn’t set up an efficient way of delivering hundreds of cars a day as it was scrambling to produce 5,000 a week. “How can you not have this in place beforehand?” Mr. Ramsey said. “It’s not like this is unexpected demand. They should have had logistics in place in advance.”

Is demand softer than it looks?
A more worrisome problem would be if Tesla built these cars and now doesn’t have customers willing to take them. Mr. Musk had long promised that the Model 3 would be available for as little as $35,000. But the least costly version available now starts at $49,000, and the price nears $60,000 if a customer wants the Autopilot driver-assistance software and other options.

The company has said that more than 400,000 customers are waiting to buy Model 3 sedans, and that each paid a $1,000 deposit. Many who put down deposits may be waiting for the more affordable base model.

Holding inventory is itself an issue for Tesla. The company has reported that it is selling almost all of the cars it is making. Each quarter, the number produced was close to the number delivered or in transit.

Brian Johnson, an analyst at Barclays Capital who follows Tesla, said he suspected that the company had a mismatch between inventory and demand — that it had built more rear-wheel drive Model 3s than it could sell. He noted that Tesla was telling customers that it could deliver rear-wheel drive models in four weeks but that all-wheel-drive and pricier versions require waits of four to 12 months.

“That suggests there is unmatched rear-wheel-drive inventory,” he said.

At the same time, Tesla has been offering sales enticements to lure buyers. In July it offered free lifetime use of its network of fast-charging stations to customers who bought the “performance” version of the Model 3, which starts at $64,000. The company extended the program several times before ending it on Sept. 18. Mr. Musk acknowledged in a tweet that the offer was not economically “sustainable.”

The company also held a “sales event” in early September at its factory in Fremont, Calif., where potential customers could browse among a few hundred Model 3s and pick one to buy. Later in the month the company sent emails offering free overnight test drives of its Model S luxury sedan and its Model X sport-utility vehicle, another move that suggests Tesla is trying to stimulate demand.

Are there quality or parts issues?
In some cases, cars have been marked — with a bar-coded sticker or with grease pencil on the windshield — to indicate that they are inventory vehicles, meaning they have no customers awaiting them. Some markings indicate repairs required before the cars can be sold, like scratches, dents or components that don’t work.

That was the case with cars in a lot in Scottsdale, Ariz., that was photographed in mid-September by The New York Times.

Mr. Arnold, the Tesla spokesman, declined to explain why those cars were being stockpiled and how they figured into the company’s production numbers.

In the rush to ramp up Model 3 production, Tesla has faced growing issues with vehicle quality. Some customers have complained that cars arrived with scratches, loose parts and other manufacturing defects.

Over the summer, Tesla advertised online for technicians to repair vehicles coming off the assembly line, suggesting that a significant number needed reworking.

That may dovetail with a new headache that has cropped up: severe shortages of replacement parts. Some owners needing collision repairs have complained of waiting a month or longer for new bumpers, centers, door panels and taillights to arrive.

Tesla said recently that a solution was on the way: a chain of proprietary body shops to speed repairs.

Gabe Hoffman, general partner at Accipiter Capital Management, a hedge fund that has shorted Tesla stock, said he was skeptical that the company would follow through. “It would be spending money they don’t have,” he said.

The long wait for parts suggests that Tesla has none or very few on hand. “To me, that shows a company in financial crisis,” Mr. Hoffman said.

Some answers may be on the way. In the coming days Tesla is expected to report production and delivery data for the last three months. A closer look at the company will come in about a month when it presents its third-quarter earnings. It’s a report the Securities and Exchange Commission is likely to scrutinize.

What to Cook This Week

Good morning. I am sorry to be this guy today, coming in hot on a Sunday morning when maybe all you’d like to be doing is spacing out or reading the new Robert Galbraith novel from J.K. Rowling. But really, today is the day to deep-clean your fridge after a summer of berries and ribs, endless new cheeses for August soirees, kombucha spills and leaking containers of sambal oelek and maple syrup. Look and see: three bottles of ketchup; two of mayonnaise; two of pickled jalapeño. When did you buy that sour cream? Are those … radishes in the back of the crisper?

Clean it all out! Greet October with a gleaming refrigerator and, I’m telling you, your run to Thanksgiving in November will be approximately 12 percent easier than if you do not.

Cook a little in the wake of the cleaning. As our British friends remind, Sundays are good for a roast. (Why, here’s a collection of roast recipes now.) I’m thinking roast pork with milk, myself. And some salted chocolate chunk shortbread cookies for dessert because that’s just the sort of thing to reward your labor in the fridge.

For dinner on Monday, maybe try this roasted mushroom and butternut squash tart? (Make the dough tonight, please, which won’t take long. Let it proof all day in your super-clean fridge, then take it out when you get home to prepare the topping. It’ll all come together nicely. You’ll eat by 8!)

On Tuesday, you might turn toward roasted chicken thighs with lemon, thyme and rosemary, which you could serve with buttered pasta, with rice, with big chunks of toast.

Steak haché for Wednesday? It’s Salisbury steak, basically, a hamburger without a bun, with excellent salsa verde over the top. Divine, especially alongside a platter of braised leeks with Parmesan.

I’m liking the idea of fish with shiitakes for Thursday night, a Florence Fabricant recipe that works as well with shrimp as with cod, with halibut, hake, flounder or tilapia. I might try it one day with clams.

And then on Friday, I’ll mount a chicken on a can, roast it into crispness, paint it with white barbecue sauce in the Alabama tradition, and serve a dinner of beer-can chicken (above) that tastes best alongside Edna Lewis’s recipe for corn pudding.

Go browse the crowded aisles of NYT Cooking for other recipes to cook during the coming week. (As is true at Costco and the outfit known familiarly as Bodega Supply, you’ll need to be a subscribing member to shop. Here’s how to sign up, if you haven’t already. If you have, tell a friend!) Come visit us on Facebook and Instagram while you’re at it.

And if something goes wrong? Just write for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get you sorted, whether it’s a failed recipe or a dropped email address, a gift subscription or something to do with your recipe box. I myself am terrible with technology and business rules. But if your issue is psychological, or if you have something particularly nasty to say, I’d prefer to take the hit myself and spare our hardworking staff. Shoot your arrows at foodeditor@nytimes.com.

Now, it doesn’t have anything to do with crème fraîche or rosemary, but it is Truman Capote’s birthday today. He would have been 94. Won’t you read his 1984 obituary in The Times? I didn’t realize it, but he died at the Los Angeles home of Joanne Carson, Johnny Carson’s ex-wife. He was 59.

I didn’t know about this outfit Special Surfers, in Maine, until this week. It’s pretty cool.

Finally, here are some fascinating photographs by Sarah Blesener in the Virginia Quarterly Review, of children engaging in what’s called patriotic education. The kids, Blesener says, “really destroy the binary we have between left and right, good and bad, right and wrong.” That’s true of the images as well. See you tomorrow.
