What to Cook This Week

Good morning. I am sorry to be this guy today, coming in hot on a Sunday morning when maybe all you’d like to be doing is spacing out or reading the new Robert Galbraith novel from J.K. Rowling. But really, today is the day to deep-clean your fridge after a summer of berries and ribs, endless new cheeses for August soirees, kombucha spills and leaking containers of sambal oelek and maple syrup. Look and see: three bottles of ketchup; two of mayonnaise; two of pickled jalapeño. When did you buy that sour cream? Are those … radishes in the back of the crisper?

Clean it all out! Greet October with a gleaming refrigerator and, I’m telling you, your run to Thanksgiving in November will be approximately 12 percent easier than if you do not.

Cook a little in the wake of the cleaning. As our British friends remind, Sundays are good for a roast. (Why, here’s a collection of roast recipes now.) I’m thinking roast pork with milk, myself. And some salted chocolate chunk shortbread cookies for dessert because that’s just the sort of thing to reward your labor in the fridge.

For dinner on Monday, maybe try this roasted mushroom and butternut squash tart? (Make the dough tonight, please, which won’t take long. Let it proof all day in your super-clean fridge, then take it out when you get home to prepare the topping. It’ll all come together nicely. You’ll eat by 8!)

On Tuesday, you might turn toward roasted chicken thighs with lemon, thyme and rosemary, which you could serve with buttered pasta, with rice, with big chunks of toast.

Steak haché for Wednesday? It’s Salisbury steak, basically, a hamburger without a bun, with excellent salsa verde over the top. Divine, especially alongside a platter of braised leeks with Parmesan.

I’m liking the idea of fish with shiitakes for Thursday night, a Florence Fabricant recipe that works as well with shrimp as with cod, with halibut, hake, flounder or tilapia. I might try it one day with clams.

And then on Friday, I’ll mount a chicken on a can, roast it into crispness, paint it with white barbecue sauce in the Alabama tradition, and serve a dinner of beer-can chicken (above) that tastes best alongside Edna Lewis’s recipe for corn pudding.

Go browse the crowded aisles of NYT Cooking for other recipes to cook during the coming week. (As is true at Costco and the outfit known familiarly as Bodega Supply, you’ll need to be a subscribing member to shop. Here’s how to sign up, if you haven’t already. If you have, tell a friend!) Come visit us on Facebook and Instagram while you’re at it.

And if something goes wrong? Just write for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get you sorted, whether it’s a failed recipe or a dropped email address, a gift subscription or something to do with your recipe box. I myself am terrible with technology and business rules. But if your issue is psychological, or if you have something particularly nasty to say, I’d prefer to take the hit myself and spare our hardworking staff. Shoot your arrows at foodeditor@nytimes.com.

Now, it doesn’t have anything to do with crème fraîche or rosemary, but it is Truman Capote’s birthday today. He would have been 94. Won’t you read his 1984 obituary in The Times? I didn’t realize it, but he died at the Los Angeles home of Joanne Carson, Johnny Carson’s ex-wife. He was 59.

I didn’t know about this outfit Special Surfers, in Maine, until this week. It’s pretty cool.

Finally, here are some fascinating photographs by Sarah Blesener in the Virginia Quarterly Review, of children engaging in what’s called patriotic education. The kids, Blesener says, “really destroy the binary we have between left and right, good and bad, right and wrong.” That’s true of the images as well. See you tomorrow.
